CheckboxTree

Word Count:
About 1400

Mission/Scope:
We describe the implementation of a widget that is commonly found in GUIs, but is missing in Swing.
Existing similar components can be found, but, in our opinion, they lack important features.
Since our implementation is based on Swing architecture and components, readers can also improve their understanding
of Swing library and learn on how to design new GUI widgets.
Lastly, they can add a useful open-source widget to their toolbox :-)

Delivery Date:
We can get this article to you by July, 4th

Supportive Materials:
The article includes three images (one image of the component and two UML diagrams). We would also attach the jar 
packages with the component classes, source code/javadocs and an example application using the component (also 
available from our website and our maven repository).

Abstract/Summary:
We describe the CheckboxTree, a Swing-based tree with a checkbox at
each of its nodes, similar to those commonly found in installers (and
unfortunately missing in Swing).
We wrote the component building upon Swing design, and spiced it up with
features like configurable styles of check propagation and greyed checkboxes
when a subtree is not completely (un)checked.
We give insights about its design, along with usage examples, documentation and
source code.

Representative samples of your published work
We mainly publish scientific articles in conferences and journals (list available if needed).
The GI-go Geo-Browser is one of our flagship software projects: http://zeus.pin.unifi.it/joomla/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=12&Itemid=59

Background/Biographical information:
Lorenzo Bigagli is a researcher at the Italian National Research Council and the University of Florence, currently taking a PhD on advanced technologies for Spatial Data Infrastructures.
He loves Java since more than 10 years (and counting), particularly for its support to concurrent programming and networking.

Enrico Boldrini is a computer scientist, taking a MSc at the University of Florence.
He also works for the Italian National Research Council, in particular he is a member of the 
Earth and Space Information Technologies Group and he develops Java applications for Geomatics.

They happen to write new custom Java components, usually trying to provide general solutions to share with the Java community.